---
layout: page
title: Final Assignment
---

Every day we use computers. It doesn't matter if we touch a keyboard, use a mouse, or even look at a computer directly our lives are being guided by processes, programs, and hardware situated around the globe. We have no choice in the matter, it's far too efficient and established to use these systems than to rely on human systems alone. Our finances are all stored in databases, we learn using connected networks on the Internet and the World Wide Web, and most of the machines we interact with day-to-day are run using computing systems. It's not something to worry about, but has simply become a matter of fact. Understanding how computing systems work and the technologies that make up these systems can provide us with the right fundamentals to leverage their power in our own personal and profesional lives. However, we must remain concerned about both the postives and the negatives that are attached to living in a society that is more connected than ever before.

In my own life, I've always been fond of computers. My families first PC was purchased in late 1995, and one of the first things I did was buy a copy of [Doom 2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doom_II:_Hell_on_Earth) because I had seen it on a friends computer. He was actually playing a game with someone across the neighborhood using the Internet. I was metaphorically blown away, that game does involve digital explosions as well, as I watched them take shots at each other and communicate. Up until that point I had no idea you could do such a thing, I had only ever played console games on a TV.

Shortly after installing my game I learned that you could collect AOL CDs from neighbors and rack up free usage minutes by installing & uninstalling the AOL system on your machine. Hours a day were spent tying up our house phone lines as I began to learn about gaming, machines, and the internet in general. It was a common occurence to get yelled at, and have to get off the internet while one of my parents waited for a phone call on our land-line telephone. Words cannot describe what it felt like in those first few months to discover an entirely new universe of information. At schools we had little use of computers up until that point, and I had never before had free reign to explore like I did at that moment. Even still I was a late-comer to some of these things, and because of that I felt a need to catch up with those around me. Little did I know how revolutionary these simple personal devices would become. I'm guessing that at that time the adoption rate of a personal computer was just beginning to switch from an early majority tool to a late majority tool. Though I could be off.

As I intereacted with my friends daily we would talk about new games, and things that we had done. We would find ways to network our machines to play, and we would scour the internet for tips and tools. I became enamored with the fact that you could change and augment parts of your existing software. I learned about game patches that allowed you to change characters, levels, or other aspects of games unofficially. I learned about memory editors that let  me gain a leg up on my computer opponents by manually fixing the ammunition, and health of my characters. I learned that some game demos could actually be turned into full-versions by changing a few files. I can't say it was the most ethical thing to do, but as a kid with no job and very little understanding of economic systems, I didn't care.

I quickly began to outpace my friends in the stuff I did with computers, migrating away from games, and exploring all the amazing content you could find on the web. I found chat rooms, and discussion boards that related to some of the things I was interested in, and things I didn't even know existed. I saw movies where people would use computers and payphones to steal information and even money. I don't know why the criminal aspect got me hooked, but I started to look up how it was people could do these things. I learned about phreaking and how internet sites were put together. I began studying html markup, and wondering what a compiler actually did. It still would be a few years before I attempted to write any of my own code. Instead I spent time using programs and tools other people had written, I figured that was all hackers did anyways.

As school progressed and as computers were upgraded over and over, my interest maintained. I found out that many of my friends only kept a casual interest in the web, games, and other programs. In much the same way it took me a while to attempt to code something, they never felt a need to go beyond user-space applications and their knowledge stagnated. I found this to be a peculiar thing as it gave me leverage over them. Instant messaging and email became much more popular amongst my peers, and I found I could use it to not only socially engineer information out of my friends but actually find their computers on the net. I would write emails that looked like chain mail, but would contain one or two password verification emails, and use it to peek inside their email accounts. I would trick them into install mischievious programs on their machine and connect remotely. Strangely I stayed very honest in most of this activity, often playing tricks for a short time then divulging on what I had done. I had the malevolence of an April Fool's prankster, not a vandal or heaven forbid a black-hat. I kept my activities strictly grey for the time being.

Some of my first written code was in Python. I had done a lot of HTML by that time, but according to all the good hackers, it wasn't real programming, so I had to learn more. By that time I had learned why compilers were necessary but the interpreted environment of Python seemed easier, and I like the tutorials that I found behind them. I had looked at assembly code when I first learned about cracking and keygens, but never did more than opening an executable in a dissasembler I had found online. No I wouldn't say I programmed a line of code until I tried Python. It wasn't much either, simple command line prompts, and basic tutorials relating to math. I noticed that my calculator not only had a few games, but that it actually had a Basic interpretor built into it! Beyond a few line by line Python tutorials I had worked through, I found the manual to the TI-83 that I was now using in school. My first complete program did a very simple thing. It cleared the home screen, provided a prompt that looked like the standard prompt allowing you to use the calculator like normal, and lastly it would add & multiply a random number on the evaluated answer you had just submitted. It was perfect, it was quick, and it only took up 9 lines of TI-Basic. To this day I feel bad for making my friend, Aaron, fail one of his math quizes, but ultimately he should have been double checking his answers. He never would have gotten the same answer twice with this app running, and turning the calculator off would have killed the process.

Since web technologies were the easiest to learn, and I had already looked at a lot of HTML I continued to learn about how these websites were put together. Slowly following along and getting up to speed with what other people were doing. Javascript, CSS, WYSIWG editors it was a dream. By the time I actually was able to sign up for a computer class in High School I was well ahead of the curriculum. I was shocked. By this point I realized that it was not just something I did for fun anymore, there was academic purpose to computing, and I had to continue learning.

For me computing has become my lifestyle. It was by accident, but I suppose that's the best way for any lifestyle to occur. Even with the current academic experience I have, and the profesional problems I've helped to solve I find that there are volumes upon volumes of subjects all related to the narrow space of learning I've found myself in. Though I've never lost my devious nature, at some point along the ride I've found that tools I'm able to create can actually help large groups and audiences, I can communicate at levels that were unheard of a 2 decades ago, and I can actually provide positive social impact from a terminal anywhere there is one to be found. There's a lifetime of fun problems out there just waiting to be solved, and I get a chance to help out with them. When I installed my first piece of software, I can't say I ever imagined it would lead to something like this.